# EE8603: Machine Learning Project
This repository has been created as a partial requirement of the EE8603 graduate course project at TMU. The project objective is to predict Total UPDRS score from voice signals using Regression, which is used to diagnose Parkinson's disease among patients. This repository includes the detailed analyses methods and codes used in the project.

**Parkinson's Disease Prediction Using Machine Learning (Regression)**

**Abstract:** Voice signal analysis has demonstrated promise in the early diagnosis of Parkinson's Disease (PD). This project utilizes several machine learning algorithms to improve the detection of Parkinson's disease (PD) by predicting the total of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) score from several voice signals. The project investigates the prospect of a feature importance-driven ensemble learning approach for enhancing both the efficiency and performance of the prediction model. These techniques have been carried out on a specified dataset repository. The dataset included a 20-dimensional feature vector, with the total UPDRS score as the target. In this work, feature selection was utilized to locate the most significant and useful features among the attributes, which ultimately contribute to improved predictive models with better outcomes. Ensemble learning approaches were also used to improve performance and resilience. Ensemble learning approaches combine numerous separate models to create more precise estimations. To determine the errors of prediction of the overall UPDRS score, the model evaluation approach employs metrics for evaluation such as MAE, MSE, RMSE, R2, RMSLE, and MAPE. The RMSE was employed to evaluate models in this study. The results demonstrate that all the machine learning algorithms used have nearly comparable errors when predicting UPDRS scores. However, based on RMSE, Extreme Gradient Boosting, Random Forest Regressor, and Extra Trees Regressor were rated the top models among all investigated algorithms. Then all three models were tuned followed by combining as a blended ensembled model based on their prediction performance. The findings of this study might aid in the early diagnosis and treatment of Parkinson's disease patients by employing an effective prediction model. 

**Video Link:** https://www.loom.com/share/4f4ea77f73534b92bed1c2a0a479a676

**Github link:** https://github.com/afsana-akhie/EE8603-ML-Project
